Announce Alpha-Omega grant for 3 month's CSP work (#7565)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2024/10/04/2024-10-04-content-security-policy-grant.adoc

---
:layout: post
:title: "Alpha Omega Foundation Content Security Policy Grant"
:tags:
- donation
authors:
- markewaite
description: >
  Alpha Omega Foundation funds 3 months of work on Jenkins Content Security Policy
links:
  discourse: https://community.jenkins.io/t/content-security-policy/nnnnn
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2024/10/04/content-security-policy-grant.png
---

Alpha-Omega has provided a grant from for three months of full-time work to improve the link:/doc/developer/security/csp/[Jenkins implementation] of link:https://content-security-policy.com/[Content Security Policy].
The improvements will be implemented in October, November, and December of 2024.
author:shlomomdahan[Shlomo Dahan] is implementing the improvements with technical guidance from author:basil[Basil Crow] and project management support from author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten].

link:https://alpha-omega.dev/[Alpha-Omega] is an associated project of the OpenSSF, established in February 2022, funded by Microsoft, Google, and Amazon.

> The mission of Alpha-Omega is protect society by catalyzing sustainable security improvements to the most critical open source software projects and ecosystems.

Author: Thanks!  Included in 77b40de83e

> The mission of Alpha-Omega is protect society by catalyzing sustainable security improvements to the most critical open source software projects and ecosystems.

Author: I hesitate to apply this suggestion because I copied the text from https://alpha-omega.dev/ and they use "open source" rather than "open-source".  There are 485 lines with "open source" in the jenkins.io docs site and 275 lines with "open-source".  It seems either form is OK on the site and there is a preference towards "open source".

@kmartens27 can you offer guidance here?

> The mission of Alpha-Omega is protect society by catalyzing sustainable security improvements to the most critical open source software projects and ecosystems.

Reviewer: Sure thing! The hyphen would be used when open source is being used as an adjective/descriptor. So in this case, it is describing the software projects and ecosystems. Therefore, it would be "open-source software projects and ecosystems" here.

> Alpha-Omega has link:https://alpha-omega.dev/grants/grantrecipients/[funded security improvements] in major open source projects like the Linux Kernel, Rust Foundation, FreeBSD, Node.js, Ruby Central, and the Eclipse Foundation.

Author: Whether "open source" or "open-source", we should keep it consistent within this page.  Pending question to @kmartens27 in https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pull/7565#discussion_r1782554932

> Alpha-Omega has link:https://alpha-omega.dev/grants/grantrecipients/[funded security improvements] in major open source projects like the Linux Kernel, Rust Foundation, FreeBSD, Node.js, Ruby Central, and the Eclipse Foundation.

Reviewer: This would be the same as above, where open source is an adjective and therefore should include the hyphen as suggested.

We are sincerely grateful for this grant to the Jenkins project.

== What is Content Security Policy?

From link:https://content-security-policy.com/[content-security-policy.com]:

> > _Content-Security-Policy_ is the name of a HTTP response header that modern browsers use to enhance the security of the document (or web page). The Content-Security-Policy header allows you to restrict which resources (such as JavaScript, CSS, Images, etc.) can be loaded, and the URLs that they can be loaded from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> _Content-Security-Policy_ is the name of a HTTP response header that modern browsers use to enhance the security of the document (or web page). The Content-Security-Policy header allows you to restrict which resources (such as JavaScript, CSS, Images, etc.) can be loaded and the URLs that they can be loaded from.
```
Remove punctuation that is unneeded.

Using Content-Security-Policy (CSP), injection attacks like cross-site scripting can be prevented.

== Why a grant for Jenkins?

> Jenkins is the leading open source automation server.

Author: I hesitate to apply this suggestion because I copied the text from https://www.jenkins.io/ and it does not use a hyphen there.

> Jenkins is the leading open source automation server.

Reviewer: This would typically follow the same logic since it is an descriptor in this sentence, but I don't feel as confident saying so. We could update the jenkins.io home page so that it would be more in line with the hyphenated version, but that would be a separate issue.

> Jenkins is the leading open source automation server.

Reviewer: This is the logic I am using for these suggestions: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/o/open-source

It provides critical capabilities to organizations around the world as they create, test, and deploy software.
Improving the security of the Jenkins project aligns very well with the Alpha-Omega mission for "sustainable security improvements to the most critical open source software projects".

We hope that the successful completion of this 3-month project will result in additional funding and an expanded project in 2025.

== Who is working on the project?

> author:basil[Basil Crow] is the technical lead of the project.  He'll provide guidance, mentoring, and assistance for the implementation.
> 
> author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten] is the project manager.  He'll provide regular progress reports to Alpha-Omega.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author:basil[Basil Crow] is the technical lead of the project. He'll provide guidance, mentoring, and assistance for the implementation.

author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten] is the project manager. He'll provide regular progress reports to Alpha-Omega.
```
Adjusting spacing after sentences.

> link:/blog/authors/shlomomdahan/[Shlomo Dahan] is the developer that will implement the improvements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
author:shlomomdahan[Shlomo Dahan] is the developer who will implement the improvements.
```
